readme.md, before:

# SmartScapes

Collect and analyze developers activity on projects.

## 1. Introduction

### 1.1 Useful Links

- [Project specification](./docs/specification.md).
- Pay attention, that we have certain [quality criteria](https://github.com/BinaryStudioAcademy/quality-criteria/blob/production/src/javascript.md), which we should follow during application development.

## 2. Domain

The application collects and analyzes developers' activity on different projects based on GIT commits.

## 3. Requirements

- [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org/en) (>=22.10.0 <23.0.0);
- [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) (10.x.x);
- [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/) (17.5)

## 4. Database Schema

TBD

## 5. Architecture

TBD

### 5.1 Global

#### 5.1.1 Technologies

1. [Typescript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
2. [npm workspaces](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v9/using-npm/workspaces)

### 5.2 Frontend

#### 5.2.1 Technologies

1. [React](https://react.dev/) — a frontend library
2. [Redux](https://redux.js.org/) + [Redux Toolkit](https://redux-toolkit.js.org/) — a state manager

#### 5.2.2 Folder Structure

1. assets - static assets (images, global styles)
2. libs - shared libraries and utilities

   2.1 components - plain react components

   2.2 enums

   2.3 helpers

   2.4 hooks

   2.5 modules - separate features or functionalities

   2.6 types

3. modules - separate app features or functionalities
4. pages - app pages

### 5.3 Backend

#### 5.3.1 Technologies

1. [Fastify](https://fastify.dev/) — a backend framework
2. [Knex](https://knexjs.org/) — a query builder
3. [Objection](https://vincit.github.io/objection.js/) — an ORM

#### 5.3.2 Folder Structure

1. db - database data (migrations, seeds)
2. libs - shared libraries and utilities

   2.1 enums

   2.2 exceptions

   2.3 helpers

   2.4 modules - separate features or functionalities

   2.5 types

3. modules - separate app features or functionalities

### 5.4 Shared Package

#### 5.4.1 Reason

As we are already using js on both frontend and backend it would be useful to share some contracts and code between them.

#### 5.4.2 Technologies

1. [Zod](https://github.com/colinhacks/zod) — a schema validator

## 6. How to Run

### 6.1 Manually

1. Create and fill all .env files. These files are:

- apps/frontend/.env
- apps/backend/.env

You should use .env.example files as a reference.

1. Install dependencies: `npm install`.

2. Install pre-commit hooks: `npm run git:hooks:prepare`. This hook is used to verify code style on commit.

3. Build shared: `npm run build:shared`

4. Run database. You can run it by installing postgres on your computer.

5. Apply migrations: `npm run migrate:dev -w apps/backend`

6. Run backend: `npm run start:dev -w apps/backend`

7. Run frontend: `npm run start:dev -w apps/frontend`

## 7. Development Flow

### 7.1 Pull Request Flow

```
<type>: <ticket-title> <project-prefix>-<issue-number>
```

For the full list of types check [Conventional Commits](https://github.com/conventional-changelog/commitlint/tree/master/%40commitlint/config-conventional)

Examples:

- `feat: add dashboard screen ss-123`

### 7.2 Branch Flow

```
<issue-number>-<type>-<short-desc>
```

Examples:

- `123-feat-add-dashboard`
- `12-feat-add-user-flow`
- `34-fix-user-flow`

### 7.3 Commit Flow

We use [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0) to handle commit messages.

```
<type>: <description> <project-prefix>-<issue-number>
```

Examples:

- `feat: add dashboard component ss-45`
- `fix: update dashboard card size ss-212`

## 8. Deployment

CI/CD implemented using [GitHub Actions](https://docs.github.com/en/actions)

Commit message:

ci(frontend/backend/shared): update project name ss-1

readme.md, after:

# SmartScapes

SmartScapes is an interactive web app that replaces static maps with dynamic, custom guides for large parks and attractions. Users can track and save routes by “checking in” at points of interest, leave reviews and photos, and filter or share personalized recommendations. An admin panel lets moderators create and manage routes, POIs, media and user‑submitted content.

## 1. Introduction

### 1.1 Useful Links

- Pay attention, that we have certain [quality criteria](https://github.com/BinaryStudioAcademy/quality-criteria/blob/production/src/javascript.md), which we should follow during application development.

## 2. Domain

The application collects and analyzes developers' activity on different projects based on GIT commits.

## 3. Requirements

- [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org/en) (>=22.10.0 <23.0.0);
- [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) (10.x.x);
- [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/) (17.5)

## 4. Database Schema

TBD

## 5. Architecture

TBD

### 5.1 Global

#### 5.1.1 Technologies

1. [Typescript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
2. [npm workspaces](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v9/using-npm/workspaces)

### 5.2 Frontend

#### 5.2.1 Technologies

1. [React](https://react.dev/) — a frontend library
2. [Redux](https://redux.js.org/) + [Redux Toolkit](https://redux-toolkit.js.org/) — a state manager

#### 5.2.2 Folder Structure

1. assets - static assets (images, global styles)
2. libs - shared libraries and utilities

   2.1 components - plain react components

   2.2 enums

   2.3 helpers

   2.4 hooks

   2.5 modules - separate features or functionalities

   2.6 types

3. modules - separate app features or functionalities
4. pages - app pages

### 5.3 Backend

#### 5.3.1 Technologies

1. [Fastify](https://fastify.dev/) — a backend framework
2. [Knex](https://knexjs.org/) — a query builder
3. [Objection](https://vincit.github.io/objection.js/) — an ORM

#### 5.3.2 Folder Structure

1. db - database data (migrations, seeds)
2. libs - shared libraries and utilities

   2.1 enums

   2.2 exceptions

   2.3 helpers

   2.4 modules - separate features or functionalities

   2.5 types

3. modules - separate app features or functionalities

### 5.4 Shared Package

#### 5.4.1 Reason

As we are already using js on both frontend and backend it would be useful to share some contracts and code between them.

#### 5.4.2 Technologies

1. [Zod](https://github.com/colinhacks/zod) — a schema validator

## 6. How to Run

### 6.1 Manually

1. Create and fill all .env files. These files are:

- apps/frontend/.env
- apps/backend/.env

You should use .env.example files as a reference.

1. Install dependencies: `npm install`.

2. Install pre-commit hooks: `npm run git:hooks:prepare`. This hook is used to verify code style on commit.

3. Build shared: `npm run build:shared`

4. Run database. You can run it by installing postgres on your computer.

5. Apply migrations: `npm run migrate:dev -w apps/backend`

6. Run backend: `npm run start:dev -w apps/backend`

7. Run frontend: `npm run start:dev -w apps/frontend`

## 7. Development Flow

### 7.1 Pull Request Flow

```
<type>: <ticket-title> <project-prefix>-<issue-number>
```

For the full list of types check [Conventional Commits](https://github.com/conventional-changelog/commitlint/tree/master/%40commitlint/config-conventional)

Examples:

- `feat: add dashboard screen ss-123`

### 7.2 Branch Flow

```
<issue-number>-<type>-<short-desc>
```

Examples:

- `123-feat-add-dashboard`
- `12-feat-add-user-flow`
- `34-fix-user-flow`

### 7.3 Commit Flow

We use [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0) to handle commit messages.

```
<type>: <description> <project-prefix>-<issue-number>
```

Examples:

- `feat: add dashboard component ss-45`
- `fix: update dashboard card size ss-212`

## 8. Deployment

CI/CD implemented using [GitHub Actions](https://docs.github.com/en/actions)
